slide 1
Officially launched in 1999 the OpenCV project was initially an Intel Research initiative to advance 
CPU-intensive applications, part of a series of projects including real-time ray tracing and 3D display walls.[4] 
The main contributors to the project included a number of optimization experts in Intel Russia, as well as 
Intel's Performance Library Team.

Originally developed by Intel and launched in 1999.

Open CV has wide range of applications in programming and technology
2D and 3D feature toolkits
Egomotion estimation
Facial recognition system
Gesture recognition
Human–computer interaction (HCI)
Mobile robotics
Motion understanding
Object detection
Structure from motion (SFM)
Motion tracking
Augmented reality
and many more

slide 2
Image recognition, in the context of machine vision, is the ability of software to identify objects, places, people,
 writing and actions in images. Computers can use machine vision technologies in combination with a camera and 
artificial intelligence software to achieve image recognition.

Current and future applications of image recognition include smart photo libraries, targeted advertising, 
the interactivity of media, accessibility for the visually impaired and enhanced research capabilities

slide 3
OpenCV comes with a function cv.matchTemplate() for this purpose. 
It simply slides the template image over the input image (as in 2D convolution) and compares the 
template and patch of input image under the template image.Open CV provides 6 algorithms to do so

slide 4 
TM_CCOEFF stands for Template Matching Correlation coefficien
Here is how it works
when bright parts of the template and image overlap you'll get a positive value in the dot product, 
as well as when dark parts overlap with dark parts (-ve value x -ve value gives +ve value). 
That means you get a +ve score for both bright parts matching and dark parts matching.
When you have dark on template (-ve) and bright on image (+ve) you get a -ve value. 
And when you have bright on template (+ve) and dark on image (-ve) you also get a -ve value. 
This means you get a negative score on mismatches.

slide 5
 based on documentation formulas and research paper TM_CCORR is the direct ("simplest") correlation between template
 and image:result pixel is the sum of the dot product of between the template pixel and and image pixel for each pixel 
in the template.As the template "slides" through the image, the result image is computed

slide 6
